 1.    Why Is It Important to Fight Financial Crime? 
 2.    Money Laundering 
 3.    Terrorist Financing 
 4.    Sanctions Evasion 
 5.    Bribery and Corruption 
 6.    Fraud 
 7.    Tax Evasion 
 8.    Financial Crime Prevention Measures 
 9.    Unusual Activity Reporting and Tipping Off 
 10.   Personal Accountability, Consequences, and Impact on Society 
 
  1.    Why Is It Important to Fight Financial Crime? 
        Access to the financial system helps transfrom lives around the world. However, the financial system is also used by criminals for some of todays most damaging crimes- from human trafficking to terrorist financing.
        
        Financial crime has a significant impact on both the economy and the society, meaning that such crime could also affect our own lives or the lives of our friends and families. Due to financial crime being a complex, widespread and multi-faceted activity, 
        financial institutions play a pivotal role in fighting it.
        
        it is every employees responsibility to be aware of how financial crime works and how to prevent it. 
        The consequences of the financial instituation failing to prevent financial crime can be long reaching and can range from damaged reputation [that will be extremely hard to restore] to huge fines or loss of license.
        
        To Understand financial crime,it is important to know the types of financial crime and the interrelation between them. For instance, it is known that criminals launder money that comes form tax evasion, or that terrorist groups finance their activites with proceeds
        from fraud. Similarly, if a bribe addressed to corrupt politician came from a sanctioned oligarch, it would require a comprehensive sanctions evasion scheme before even laundering the funds.
        
        
        In order for money laundering to happen, first there has to be an illegal activity that generates the funds to be laundered. Criminals involved in, for example, theft, fraud, blackmail, drug dealing, people trafficking and other crimes, want to use the proceeds of crime in the legitimate economy and not be caught by the authorities.
        
        How does it look in practice?
        
        Lets take a drug dealer whow receives large amounts of cash from drug sales. In this case, the two necessary components of money laundering are already clear:
        1) Illegal actiity [drug dealing] and 
        2) Illegal financial funds [profits from drug dealing]
        
        The Money laundaring process itself involves the three following stages:
        1) Placement
        2) Layering
        3) Integration
        
        Placement :
             In the placement stage a criminal would seek to introduce illegally acquired funds into the financial system.
             
             Some examples of placement methods:
              1) Making a person deposit funds and then transfer it onwards. This is sometimes referred to as  "Smurfing" or using "money mules"
              2) Funnelling illegal funds through legitimate businesses that deal heavily in cash transactions [eg: car wash services, beauty salons, restaurants, etc.]
              3) Breaking down large sums of money into smaller amounts that can be deposited in banks without triggering Anti-Money Laundering [AML] reporting threshold alerts.
              4) Paying dummy invoices to criminal associates.
              5) Smuggling illegal funds overseas to jurisdictions with weaker AML controls.
       
       Layering :
            Once the illegally acquired funds are "placed", the layering stage begins.
            
            It is preformed by creating complex layers of Financial transactions to disguise the money trail and distance the funds from the initial source -- Criminal activity. Criminals use various methods to achieve this, usually taking advantage of gaps in the AML setup of Financial institutions.
            
            Some examples of layering transactions:
             1) Moving funds from country to country and/or involving offshore bank accounts in the transactions
             2) Moving funds between multiple banking or financial institutions or between accounts within the same institution.
             3) Using shell companies, as well as obscure ownership structures, to move illegal funds and assets.
             4) Using professional intermediaries or associates to handle transactions.
             
             Note: The movement of funds can be accommodated using other financial instruments than money (eg: securities,commodities etcs)
             
      Integration:
             After the illegal source of funds in disguised via the network of transactions, and the funds appear to be legal the last stage of money laundering , known as integration, begins. During Integration, the funds are reintroduced into legitimate economy.
             
             Some examples of Integratioin methods:
             1) purchasing high-value goods[eg: real estate, jewellery, art work, etc.]
             2) Acquiring a business
             3) Making investments into various financial instruments[eg: crypto currency]
             
       Note: Not all stages need to happen for money laundering to take place. For Example, in case of fraud or crimes involving crypto currency, funds are usually already in the financial system, therefore, there is no need to perform placement.
       
 Red flags of Money laundering:
    Some red flags that could help a financial institution spot money laundering :
     1) The customer is an entity where its name and line of trade is not consistant with its transactions
     2) Reluctance to give information on intended use of account, product and/or expected activity associated with them.
     3) The customer gives differntiating or complicated explanations for source of funds
     4) The customer gives the impression that it is urgent to complete a transaction without logical reason.
     5) The pattern of the transactions indicate that the account is only used as a transit account
     6) using services in a particular country, even though there is no economic incentive for that [i.e, it would cost less for the customer to be onboarding in another country]
     
     
        
        
       
       
       
          
             
             
            
            
               
              
        
        
