 1.    Why Is It Important to Fight Financial Crime? 
 2.    Money Laundering 
 3.    Terrorist Financing 
 4.    Sanctions Evasion 
 5.    Bribery and Corruption 
 6.    Fraud 
 7.    Tax Evasion 
 8.    Financial Crime Prevention Measures 
 9.    Unusual Activity Reporting and Tipping Off 
 10.   Personal Accountability, Consequences, and Impact on Society 
 
  1.    Why Is It Important to Fight Financial Crime? 
        Access to the financial system helps transfrom lives around the world. However, the financial system is also used by criminals for some of todays most damaging crimes- from human trafficking to terrorist financing.
        
        Financial crime has a significant impact on both the economy and the society, meaning that such crime could also affect our own lives or the lives of our friends and families. Due to financial crime being a complex, widespread and multi-faceted activity, 
        financial institutions play a pivotal role in fighting it.
        
        it is every employees responsibility to be aware of how financial crime works and how to prevent it. 
        The consequences of the financial instituation failing to prevent financial crime can be long reaching and can range from damaged reputation [that will be extremely hard to restore] to huge fines or loss of license.
        
        To Understand financial crime,it is important to know the types of financial crime and the interrelation between them. For instance, it is known that criminals launder money that comes form tax evasion, or that terrorist groups finance their activites with proceeds
        from fraud. Similarly, if a bribe addressed to corrupt politician came from a sanctioned oligarch, it would require a comprehensive sanctions evasion scheme before even laundering the funds.
        
        
        In order for money laundering to happen, first there has to be an illegal activity that generates the funds to be laundered. Criminals involved in, for example, theft, fraud, blackmail, drug dealing, people trafficking and other crimes, want to use the proceeds of crime in the legitimate economy and not be caught by the authorities.
        
        How does it look in practice?
        
        Lets take a drug dealer whow receives large amounts of cash from drug sales. In this case, the two necessary components of money laundering are already clear:
        1) Illegal actiity [drug dealing] and 
        2) Illegal financial funds [profits from drug dealing]
        
        The Money laundaring process itself involves the three following stages:
        1) Placement
        2) Layering
        3) Integration
        
        Placement :
             In the placement stage a criminal would seek to introduce illegally acquired funds into the financial system.
             
             Some examples of placement methods:
              1) Making a person deposit funds and then transfer it onwards. This is sometimes referred to as  "Smurfing" or using "money mules"
              2) Funnelling illegal funds through legitimate businesses that deal heavily in cash transactions [eg: car wash services, beauty salons, restaurants, etc.]
              3) Breaking down large sums of money into smaller amounts that can be deposited in banks without triggering Anti-Money Laundering [AML] reporting threshold alerts.
              4) Paying dummy invoices to criminal associates.
              5) Smuggling illegal funds overseas to jurisdictions with weaker AML controls.
       
       Layering :
            Once the illegally acquired funds are "placed", the layering stage begins.
            
            It is preformed by creating complex layers of Financial transactions to disguise the money trail and distance the funds from the initial source -- Criminal activity. Criminals use various methods to achieve this, usually taking advantage of gaps in the AML setup of Financial institutions.
            
            Some examples of layering transactions:
             1) Moving funds from country to country and/or involving offshore bank accounts in the transactions
             2) Moving funds between multiple banking or financial institutions or between accounts within the same institution.
             3) Using shell companies, as well as obscure ownership structures, to move illegal funds and assets.
             4) Using professional intermediaries or associates to handle transactions.
             
             Note: The movement of funds can be accommodated using other financial instruments than money (eg: securities,commodities etcs)
             
      Integration:
             After the illegal source of funds in disguised via the network of transactions, and the funds appear to be legal the last stage of money laundering , known as integration, begins. During Integration, the funds are reintroduced into legitimate economy.
             
             Some examples of Integratioin methods:
             1) purchasing high-value goods[eg: real estate, jewellery, art work, etc.]
             2) Acquiring a business
             3) Making investments into various financial instruments[eg: crypto currency]
             
       Note: Not all stages need to happen for money laundering to take place. For Example, in case of fraud or crimes involving crypto currency, funds are usually already in the financial system, therefore, there is no need to perform placement.
       
 Red flags of Money laundering:
    Some red flags that could help a financial institution spot money laundering :
     1) The customer is an entity where its name and line of trade is not consistant with its transactions
     2) Reluctance to give information on intended use of account, product and/or expected activity associated with them.
     3) The customer gives differntiating or complicated explanations for source of funds
     4) The customer gives the impression that it is urgent to complete a transaction without logical reason.
     5) The pattern of the transactions indicate that the account is only used as a transit account
     6) using services in a particular country, even though there is no economic incentive for that [i.e, it would cost less for the customer to be onboarding in another country]
  
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 Terrorist Financing is the provision or collection of funds with the intention to use them to carry out an act of terror, or to support any terrorist group, persons, or associations in any other way.
 
   examples of other criminal activities that are closely related to terrorism include:
    1) Recuitment of terrorism:
    2) Providing training for terrorism;
    3) And other offences.
    
 Terrorist Financing vs Money Laundering
 
 Monery laudering and terriorist financing are often mentioned together without much consideration of the important differences between the two. The two,however, are separate types of crime and differnt sets of controls might be needed to detect each of them.
 
 Lets look into main differnces:
 
 Monery laundering:
 ------------------
 1) Usually, significant sums of money are transferred
 2) Prevention of it involves investigating the origin of money
 3) Motivation - personal profit/greed
 4) Always involves funds or value derived from illegal sources.
 
 Terrorist Financeing:
 --------------------
 1) Funds can derive from both legal and illegal sources
 2) Prevention of it mainly investigates the destination of money
 3) Most transactions are small and ordinary -looking
 4) Motivation- Political/Religious ideology
 
 
 Looking at diffences , a couple of things appear
 
 Terrorist financing is extremly hard to detect.
           - This is because the origin of the money involved can be legal, the sums might be small and indistinguishable from day-to-day activities, and terrorist acts may even be self funded with regular income
 Knowing these differences can help fight terrorist financing
          -- For example: the aspects to investigate can include ties with regions with known terrorist activity, unexplained high volumes of small transactions in the account, or even signs of sympathising with radical ideology.
   
 Red flags of terrorist financing:
 Some red flags that cou
 1) Frequent domestic and international ATM activity, particularly in areas of conflict or neighbouring regions.
 2) Dormant accounts suddenly becoming active
 3) Charitable activities located in or addressing areas of conflict [NON-profit organizations/charities]
 4) Adverse media linking to known terrorist organizations/activities or being referred to as extremist.
 5) Transfer of funds into areas known for terrorism activities or where terrorist entities are known to have substantial presence.
 6) Conducting Uncharacteristic purchases[eg: camping/outdoor equipment,weapons,ammonium nitrate, hydrogen peroxide, acetone,propane etc.]
 
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 SANCTIONS:
 
 Sanctions are restrictions or prohibitions imposed by laws and regulations which can target economic ,diplomatic , financial, and trade activities of:
 
 1) Specific countries ,areas and regions
 2) Governments and political regimes
 3) Legal entities and organizations
 4) Individuals and
 5) Maritime vessels (for example Cargo ships) and aircrafts.
 
 Sanctions are implemented to achieve such objectives as
  - promoting and maintaining international peace and stability
  - Democracy and human rights
  - preventing terrorism and 
  - preventing proliferation of arms and weapons of mass destruction.
  
  Sanctions can be imposed by states , or Supranational institutions (such as the United Nations).
 
 Financial Sactions:
    There are different subsets of sanctions, but the most important one to us as a financiaal institution is financial sanctions.
    
    Financial Sanction can :
    1) Limit : Limit the provision of certain financial services
    2) Restrict: Restrict access to financial markets
    3) Prohibit : Prohibit the provision of funds and economic resources.
    
    Actions Aganist Sanctioned Parties:
    
    This means that there are two scenarios for us as a financial institution , when it comes to dealing with sactioned parties.
    
    Prohibition: We are prohibited from providing any products or services [directly and indirectly] to sanctioned parties.
    Limitation : We are limited to what products or services we are allowed to provide to sanctioned parties [for example, there could be debt/equity restrictions on entities operating in specific sectors, such as defence,energy or financial industries, or restrictions
                  related to trading in certain goods, such as dual-use goods]
    
    Adherence to Sanction Regimes
        Danske banks group follows : United Nations, European Union, United Kingdom and United States sanction regimes. We must also comply with local sanctions in the jurisdictions where we operatae.(eg: sanctions imposed by governments of Norway and Finland etc.)
        
      Sanctions breaches will usually result in serious civil nd criminal penalties that can reach several billion euros or, in case of breaching the US sanctions, consequences can be as severe as exclusion from US dollor clearing. There is also an individual accountability
      for you as an employee to comply with sanctions.
      
     Red flags of Sanctions evasion:
       Some red flags that could help a financial institution spot sanction evasion:
        1) Customers name or address is the same as or similar to one on the sanction list.
        2) The end-destination of a transaction is IRAN,RUSSIA,NORTH KOREA, CUBA,CRIMEA,SYRIA,MYANMAR or another country with restrictions aplied through sanctions lists.
        3) The end-destination of a transaction neighbours a sanctioned country
        4) Customer has known or suspected links to sanctioned countries.
        5) Transactions indicate involvement of shell companies.
        6) Inconsistent or Falsified documenation, especially ones related to shipping routes or vessals. Also re-flagging or vessals.
        
      --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
      
      Bribery and corruption:
      
      Definition of bribery and corruption can vary from country to country depending on historical events,traditions,mentality , and other factiors. All definitions,however,indicate that corruption is" the abuse of entrusted power of private gain"
      
      Bribery is a by-product of corruption and can be simply defined as the offering,promising, or giving of something to influence on official . Such benefit does not necessarily have to involve cash or a payment. It can have a number of forms
      Such as
      Lavish gifts,
      hospitality,
      covered epenses,
      services,
      favourable loans,
      donations,
      trips,
      access to assets,
      favours and other forms.
      
      What is bribery and corruption?
      Corruptions is not just large-scale , where businesses offer bribes to persons with high political influence , but can also be small-scale, where low level official gets bribes from ordinary citizens in return for
      access to basic goods and services , such as hospitals,schoolls and other.
      Both the person who offer and gives a bribe and the person who demands and accepts it are considerable liable and can be prosecuted.
      The bribes does not actually have to be given. Just offering it, even if not accepted , could be sufficient to constitute bribery. 
      
      
      ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      
      PEP ( Politically Exposed Persons)
      
      Although corruption can occur in both private and public sectors, PEPs are one of the most vulnerable groups of society when it comes to bribery and corruption. PEPs are individuals who hold, or have previously help, 
      a high political profile or a prominent public function, their family  members and individuals known to be close associates. Persons and Organizations may seek to influence their decisions or gain classified information from them.
     
      Example:
       1) Head of state or government
       2) Member of the governing bodies of polities parties.
       3) members of suprime couts, constitutional courts.
       4) Ambassadors
       5) Senior executives of state-owned corporations.
       
     Red Flags of Bribery and corruptions:
        Some red flags could help a financial institution spot bribery and corruption.
        
        1) Public official receiving loan guarantees from a public corporation or government body, or a loan under favourable conditions, which normally would not be applied.
        2) Public officials purchasing assests totalling the amount higher than their legally declared income.
        3) Paying or receiving consultation fees or extra fees that are unusally high compared to market rate.
        4) Suspicion of an undisclosed beneficial owner being involved in the transaction.
        5) Payments to or from offshore jurisdictions with no reasonable explanation.
        6) PERs attempt to shield their identity behind obscure corporate vehicles, intermediaries, or family members and associates.
        
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fraud:
    
    In a nutshell, fraud can be understood as a means to acquire another persons property by using deception or dishonestly
    Reports show that bandking institutions are losing around 5% percent of their anual revenues to fraudulent activity. There fore , by preventing fraud,
    banks protect not only customer, but also their own business.
    
    Fraud can be categorised into:
    
    1) Internal Fraud: Is committed by employees, manager, or owners of the company. 
    2) External Fraud: is committed by people outside the orgations.
    
    This course focuses on external fraud risk which comes from banks relationship with customers. 
    
    Three main categories of external fraud that targets or involves customers.
    1) First party fraud
          This is a type of fraud where the Bank group customer misrepresents their identity or falsifies information when applying for products and services, thus committing a fraudulent activity and negatively impacting
          the bank, other customers or an external party.
          The aim of this type of fraud is for the fraudster to receive favourable terms or to deceive the bank into giving products and services with no intention of paying for them.
    2) Third party fraud :
          Here, an external actor, with whom the bank may or may not have a relationship, commits a fraudulent activity. Third pary fraud is sometimes referred to as "identity theft".
           One example would be a card-not-present fraud. These are fraudulent internet transactions that use stolen information of a payment card without physical card being present. The card informaiton can be illegally obtained from web shops hotels,fake mobile apps.etc.
    3)  Authorised Push payment fraud (APP)
       APP is a type of fraud where customers are manipulated into making payments to accounts controlled by fraudsters.
       Some of the most common APP scams are:
       i) Investment scam, where fraudsters offer a fake opportunity to make profit by handling money over to them.
       ii) Romance Scam: Where fraudsters persuade their victims into making payments to them, by pretending to be in relationship that often starts on social media or online dating opps.
       iii) CEO fraud: where fraudsters convince a victim, often an employee, to make an urgent payment to their account, by impersonating a CEP or other high ranking officier of the company.
       
  Red Flags of Fraud:
        1) Customers home or business address differs from the geographical region of the financial institution they want to become a customer of.
        2) Suspicious addresses supplied, such as a P.O box, or phone numbers associated with answering services.
        3) customer starts making transactions to a geographical region unusual to their regular pattern.
        4) Incoming transactions from multiple individuals who have no connection with a customer.
        5) Funds in customers account get suddenly wiped out
        6) Documentation appears forged or altered or destroyed and reassembled.
  
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  WHat is TAX EVASION?
   Tax evasion describes illegal actions whereby a person or an entity "deliberately hides their income or assests and doesn't declare it to tax tuthorities in order to pay less taxes or they claim falsified expenses as a deduction to 
   reduce their taxable income.
   
   Some tax evasion may even qualify as tax fraud, mostly when performed deliberately on a large scale.
   
   Note: Some actions taken by the customer may appear as tax evasion but turn out to be legal.
   Tax evasion is not tolerated by the bank group, however when it comes to other tax arrangements(eg: aggressive tax planning) please consult group tax.
   
Facilitation fo tax evasion:
   In the bank group, if we suspect tax evation or tax fraud, we should not onboard the customer until such suspicion is desproven. We should also remember that we must not, in any circumstances, deliberately and dishonestly
   enable tax evasion through the Groups systems, processes and products, as well as by failing to adhere to the Group's Policies and Instructions. Such actions constitute facilitation of tax evasion, which is a criminal offence.
   Examples of delibrate or dishonest facilitation of tax evasion.
       i) Knowingly holding inaccurate information: Being aware of inaccurate customer information and not taking actions to update the information.
       ii) Falsifying customer informantion : Making changes to the customer information, which could lead to customer Tax evasion.

 Red Flags of TaxEvasion:
  1) Company is registered in a jurisdiction where it does not actually have any presence or conduct any activities.
  2) Company is receiving loans from its shareholders at very favourable conditions.
  3) incoming and outgoing transactions of an individual are of much higher value compared to their declared income.
  4) Documentation is showing undervalued or overvalued goods and/or services.
  5) A shareholder using company's account for personal expenses.
  6) cash is withdrawn from a business account which lacks outgoing wire transfers.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Customer life Cycle:
     From Onboarding to the End of Relationship
          Customer Onboarding ----> Ongoing monitoring of the customer relationship -----> potential reporting -----> Potential termination of the business relationship.
          
          
  
   
        
  
       
       
       
   
        
        
       
      
      
    
         
    
    
 
     
     
        
        
       
       
       
          
             
             
            
            
               
              
        
        
